Add blog for non-graceful node shutdown beta (#37583)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-12-06-non-graceful-node-shutdown-to-beta.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.26: Non-Graceful Node Shutdown Moves to Beta"

> date: 2022-12-06T10:00:00-08:00

Reviewer: Please fix this, along with the path to the Markdown file.

Author: Done

slug: kubernetes-1-26-non-graceful-node-shutdown-beta
---

**Author:** Xing Yang and Ashutosh Kumar (VMware)

> Kubernetes v1.24 introduces [alpha support](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/05/20/kubernetes-1-24-non-graceful-node-shutdown-alpha/) for [Non-Graceful Node Shutdown](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/2268-non-graceful-shutdown).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes v1.24 introduced [alpha support](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/05/20/kubernetes-1-24-non-graceful-node-shutdown-alpha/) for [Non-Graceful Node Shutdown](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/2268-non-graceful-shutdown).
```

Author: Done

> In Kubernetes v1.26, this feature moves to beta. This feature allows stateful workloads to failover to a different node after the original node is shutdown or in a non-recoverable state such as the hardware failure or broken OS.

Author: Done

## What is a Node Shutdown in Kubernetes

> In a Kubernetes cluster, it is possible for a node to shutdown. This could happen either in a planned way or it could happen unexpectedly. You may plan for a security patch, a kernel upgrade, and need to reboot the node; or a node may shutdown due to preemption of VM instances; or a node may shutdown due to a hardware failure, or a software problem, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a Kubernetes cluster, it is possible for a node to shut down. This could happen either in a planned way or it could happen unexpectedly. You may plan for a security patch, or a kernel upgrade and need to reboot the node, or it may shut down due to preemption of VM instances. A node may also shut down due to a hardware failure or a software problem.
```

Author: Done

> To trigger a node shutdown, you could run a shutdown or poweroff command, or physically press a button to power off a machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To trigger a node shutdown, you could run a shutdown or poweroff command or physically press a button to power off a machine.
```

Author: Done

A node shutdown could lead to workload failure if the node is not drained before the shutdown. A node shutdown can be either graceful or non-graceful.

## What is a Graceful Node Shutdown

> The [Graceful Node Shutdown](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/21/graceful-node-shutdown-beta/) feature allows Kubelet to detect a node shutdown event, properly terminate the pods, and release resources, before the actual shutdown. Critical pods will be terminated after all the regular pods are terminated, to make sure the critical function of an application can work as long as possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Graceful Node Shutdown](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/21/graceful-node-shutdown-beta/) feature allows the kubelet to detect a node shutdown event, properly terminate the pods, and release resources before the actual shutdown. [Critical pods](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/guaranteed-scheduling-critical-addon-pods/#marking-pod-as-critical) will be terminated after all the regular pods are terminated to ensure that the essential functions of an application can continue to work as long as possible.
```

Author: Done

## What is a Non-Graceful Node Shutdown

> A Node Shutdown can be `Graceful` only if the node shutdown action can be detected by Kubelet’s Node Shutdown Manager. However, there are cases where a node shutdown action may not be detected by Kubelet's Node Shutdown Manager. This could happen either because the shutdown command does not trigger the inhibitor locks mechanism used by Kubelet or because of a user error, i.e., the `ShutdownGracePeriod` and `ShutdownGracePeriodCriticalPods` are not configured properly.

Author: That's correct.

> A Node Shutdown can be `Graceful` only if the node shutdown action can be detected by Kubelet’s Node Shutdown Manager. However, there are cases where a node shutdown action may not be detected by Kubelet's Node Shutdown Manager. This could happen either because the shutdown command does not trigger the inhibitor locks mechanism used by Kubelet or because of a user error, i.e., the `ShutdownGracePeriod` and `ShutdownGracePeriodCriticalPods` are not configured properly.

Reviewer 2: Why are we capitalizing Kubelet?

```suggestion
A Node Shutdown can be `Graceful` only if kubelet’s Node Shutdown Manager can detect the node shutdown action. However, there are cases where kubelet's Node Shutdown Manager may not detect a node shutdown action. This could happen because the shutdown command does not trigger the [Inhibitor Locks](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/inhibit) mechanism used by kubelet or because of a user error, i.e., the `ShutdownGracePeriod` and `ShutdownGracePeriodCriticalPods` are not configured correctly.
```

Author: Done

> When a node is shutdown but not detected by Kubelet's Node Shutdown Manager, this becomes a non-graceful node shutdown. Non-graceful node shutdown is usually not a problem for stateless apps, however, it is a problem for stateful apps. If StatefulSet is used by the apps, the pod that is part of a StatefulSet will be stuck in `Terminating` status on the shutdown node and cannot move to a new running node. If Deployment is used by the apps, a new pod will come up on another running node but stuck in `ContainerCreating` status and the old pod will be stuck in `Terminating` status on the shutdown node. As a result, the application cannot function properly. If the original shutdown node comes up, the old pod will be deleted by Kubelet and the new pod will be created successfully on a different running node. If the original shutdown node does not come up, these pods will be stuck in terminating status on the shutdown node forever.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a node is shut down but not detected by kubelet's Node Shutdown Manager, it becomes a non-graceful node shutdown. Non-graceful node shutdown is a problem for stateful apps. If a node containing a pod that is part of a StatefulSet is shut down in a non-graceful way, the pod will be stuck in `Terminating` status and cannot move to a new running node. Similarly, pods that ReplicaSets create as part of a Deployment will be stuck in `Terminating` status on the shutdown node forever. However, they will come up on another running node and be stuck in the `ContainerCreating` status on the new node. As a result, the application will not function properly. If the original shutdown node comes up, the old pod will be deleted by kubelet, and the new pod will be created successfully on a different running node.
```

Author: Done

## What’s new in Beta

With the promotion of the Non-Graceful Node Shutdown feature to beta, the feature gate  `NodeOutOfServiceVolumeDetach` is enabled by default on `kube-controller-manager` instead of being opt-in.

> New metrics `force_delete_pods_total` and `force_delete_pod_errors_total` are also added in the Pod GC Controller.

Reviewer 3: It would be more better adding description of `force_delete_pods_total` and `force_delete_pod_errors_total` .
Below sentences look good.
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/controller/podgc/metrics.go#L35
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/controller/podgc/metrics.go#L44

Reviewer 2: Agree with above.

Author: Done.

## How does it work

> In the case of a node shutdown, if graceful shutdown is not working or node is in non-recoverable state due to hardware failure or broken OS, the user can manually add a `out-of-service’ taint on the Node. For example, this can be `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoExecute` or `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoSchedule`. This will trigger pods on the node to be forcefully deleted if there are no matching tolerations on the pods.  Persistent volumes attached to the shutdown node will be detached, and new pods will be created successfully on a different running node.

Author: Done

> In the case of a node shutdown, if graceful shutdown is not working or node is in non-recoverable state due to hardware failure or broken OS, the user can manually add a `out-of-service` taint on the Node. For example, this can be `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoExecute` or `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoSchedule`. This will trigger pods on the node to be forcefully deleted if there are no matching tolerations on the pods.  Persistent volumes attached to the shutdown node will be detached, and new pods will be created successfully on a different running node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the case of a node shutdown, if a graceful shutdown is not working or the node is in a non-recoverable state due to hardware failure or broken OS, the user can manually add an `out-of-service` taint on the Node. For example, this can be `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoExecute` or `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoSchedule`. This will trigger pods on the node to be forcefully deleted if there are no matching tolerations on the pods.  Persistent volumes attached to the shutdown node will be detached, and new pods will be created successfully on a different running node.
```

Author: Done

```
kubectl taint nodes <node-name> node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoExecute
```

> Note: Before applying the out-of-service taint, you must verify that a node is already in shutdown or power off state (not in the middle of restarting), either because the user intentionally shut it down or the node is down due to hardware failures, OS issues, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: Before applying the out-of-service taint, you must verify that a node is already in shutdown or power-off state (not in the middle of restarting), either because the user intentionally shut it down or the node is down due to hardware failures, OS issues, etc.
```

Author: Done

Once all the workload pods that are linked to the out-of-service node are moved to a new running node, and the shutdown node has been recovered, you should remove that taint on the affected node after the node is recovered.

## What’s next?

Depending on feedback and adoption, the Kubernetes team plans to push the Non-Graceful Node Shutdown implementation to GA in either 1.27 or 1.28.

> This feature requires a user to manually add a taint to the node to trigger workloads failover and remove the taint after the node is recovered. In the future, we plan to find ways to automatically detect and fence nodes that are shutdown/failed and automatically failover workloads to another node.

Reviewer 2: Does this sound accurate?

```suggestion
This feature requires a user to manually add a taint to the node to trigger the failover of workloads and remove the taint after the node is recovered. In the future, we plan to find ways to automatically detect and fence nodes that are shut down or in a non-recoverable state and fail their workloads over to another node.
```

Reviewer: We could link to https://github.com/kubernetes/node-problem-detector here. Is that useful?

Author: This is a great tool, but it does not work in all environments. It might add confusion if we just add a link without a lot of explanation.  So I'd prefer not to include it.
